docs/files/document-generation.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Document Generation

[[API Docs](/api/document)]
[[SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/document-client)]

## Overview

The Document Generation API is a powerful serverless document processing service that enables dynamic document creation from templates. It supports multiple input and output formats, advanced variable substitution, image handling with loops, and Excel generation capabilities.

### Key Features
- **Multi-format Support**: Process DOCX, XLSX, XLS, XLSM, and ICS templates
- **Variable Substitution**: Replace template variables with dynamic data from entities
- **Image Processing**: Direct image embedding with size control and loop support
- **PDF Generation**: Convert documents to PDF with preview URLs
- **Excel Support**: Full spreadsheet generation with formula preservation
- **Async Processing**: Handle large documents with job tracking
- **Multi-language**: Support for English and German localization

### Architecture
The service uses a dual-Lambda architecture:
- **API Handler Function**: REST API router for synchronous operations (Node.js 22)
- **Generate Document Function**: Dockerized Lambda for async document processing (Node.js 18 + Python)

## API Endpoints

### 1. Extract Template Metadata

Extract metadata and variables from document templates.

**Endpoint:** `POST /v2/documents:meta`

**Supported Formats:**
- `.docx`, `.doc` - Word documents
- `.xlsx`, `.xls`, `.xlsm` - Excel spreadsheets

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "template_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
      "key": "123/templates/contract-template.docx"
    }
  }
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "page_margins": {
    "top": 1440,
    "bottom": 1440,
    "left": 1440,
    "right": 1440,
    "header": 720,
    "footer": 720
  },
  "variables": [
    "customer_name",
    "order.billing_contact.0.salutation",
    "items[0].description",
    "opportunities[Primary].value"
  ]
}
```

### 2. Generate Documents

Generate documents from templates with variable substitution.

**Endpoint:** `POST /v2/documents:generate`

**Supported Input Formats:**
- `.docx` - Word documents
- `.xlsx`, `.xls`, `.xlsm` - Excel spreadsheets
- `.ics` - Calendar files

**Supported Output Formats:**
- `.pdf` - PDF with preview URL
- `.docx` - Word document (text-only mode)
- `.xlsx` - Excel spreadsheet
- `.ics` - Calendar format

**Query Parameters:**
- `job_id` - Track async generation status
- `mode` - Generation mode:
  - `partial_generation` - User validation before final output
  - `full_generation` (default) - Complete generation in one step
- `preview_mode` - Preview behavior:
  - `open` - Open in browser
  - `download` (default) - Force download

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "template_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
      "key": "123/templates/invoice-template.docx"
    },
    "filename": "invoice-template.docx"
  },
  "context_entity_id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "user_id": "user_123",
  "language": "en",
  "variable_payload": {
    "custom_field": "Override value",
    "discount": 15
  },
  "template_settings": {
    "top_margin": 1440,
    "bottom_margin": 1440,
    "show_guidelines": false
  }
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "job_id": "job_550e8400",
  "job_status": "SUCCESS",
  "pdf": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-generated-documents",
      "key": "123/output/invoice.pdf"
    },
    "preview_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/...",
    "filename": "invoice.pdf"
  },
  "docx": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-generated-documents",
      "key": "123/output/invoice.docx"
    },
    "preview_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/...",
    "filename": "invoice.docx"
  },
  "variable_payload": {
    "customer_name": "John Doe",
    "custom_field": "Override value",
    "discount": 15
  }
}
```

### 3. Convert Documents

Convert documents between formats (currently DOCX to PDF).

**Endpoint:** `POST /v2/documents:convert`

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "input_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
      "key": "123/documents/contract.docx"
    }
  },
  "output_format": "pdf",
  "output_filename": "contract-converted.pdf",
  "language": "en"
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "output_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-generated-documents",
      "key": "123/converted/contract-converted.pdf"
    },
    "preview_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/...",
    "filename": "contract-converted.pdf"
  }
}
```

## Template Variables

### Basic Variable Syntax

Templates use double curly braces for variable substitution:

```
{{variable_name}}              // Simple variable
{{customer.name}}               // Nested object
{{address.street.number}}       // Deep nesting
{{items.0.price}}              // Alternative array syntax
{{opportunities[Primary].value}} // Label-lookup array access
{{data["special-key"]}}        // Bracket notation for special characters on Label Lookups
```

### Variable Resolution Order

Variables are resolved in the following precedence order:
1. **`variable_payload`** - Explicitly provided values (highest priority)
2. **`context_data`** - Additional context data
3. **Template Variables API** - Entity attributes from `context_entity_id`
4. **User Preferences** - Language settings from `user_id`

### Complex Variable Examples

```
// Customer information
{{customer.first_name}} {{customer.last_name}}
{{customer.address.0.street}}
{{customer.contacts[billing].email}}

// Order details with calculations
{{ calc "ROUND((price * qty) * (1 - discount), 2)" }}
{{order.total_amount}}

// Conditional display (in supported templates)
{{#has_discount}}
  Discount: {{discount_percentage}}%
{{/has_discount}}
```

You can find more examples about calculation variables [here](https://docs.epilot.io/docs/templates/template-variables#excel-like-formulas).

## Image Variables

### Basic Image Syntax

Images can be embedded in documents using the special syntax:

#### Direct Image URL
```
{{% image_url }}
```
This renders the image at its original size.

#### Image with Size Control
Use an image placeholder in your template and set the variable in the alt text:
1. Insert an image placeholder in your Word/Excel template
2. Set the alt text to: `{{% image_url }}`
3. The placeholder image dimensions will control the rendered size

### Image Loops and Collections

<div style={{display: 'flex', gap: '20px', marginBottom: '20px', alignItems: 'center'}}>
<img src="/img/docgen/docgen-images-p-1.png" alt="Document Generation Images Example 1" style={{ maxWidth: '50%', width: '100%' }} />
<img src="/img/docgen/docgen-images-p-2.png" alt="Document Generation Images Example 2" style={{ maxWidth: '50%', width: '100%' }} />
</div>


#### Mapping Journey Submissions to File Attributes

Since the global `_files` attribute is not yet supported, you need to map Journey submission fields to file attributes. For example, map a journey field to `my_journey_images`.

#### Basic Image Loop
```
{{#my_journey_images[*]}}
    {{% public_url }}
{{/my_journey_images[*]}}
```
This iterates through all images in the collection.

#### Filtered Image Loop by Label
```
{{#my_journey_images[...solar-panel]}}
    {{% public_url }}
{{/my_journey_images[...solar-panel]}}
```
This only includes images with the label "solar-panel".

#### Complete Example with Formatting
```
{{#property_images[*]}}
    Property Image:
    {{% public_url }}

    Description: {{ _title }}
    Uploaded: {{ _created_at }}
{{/property_images[*]}}
```

### Automatic Public URL Generation

The Document Generation service automatically handles private images:
- Private images are automatically converted to signed URLs with temporary access credentials
- These signed URLs include encrypted authentication tokens that grant time-limited access
- URLs expire shortly after document processing completes for security

### Important Compatibility Note

⚠️ **Order Tables with Margin Corrections are Incompatible with Loops**

Templates containing order tables with margin corrections like:
```
{{~order_table mt=2 mb=2}}
```

**Cannot** be used with image loops or any FOR_LOOP constructs.

**Solution:** Remove the margin correction variables and adjust margins directly in your Word template using Word's built-in margin settings.

## Excel Generation

<div style={{display: 'flex', gap: '20px', marginBottom: '20px', alignItems: 'center'}}>
<img src="/img/docgen/docgen-excel-1.png" alt="Excel Document Generation Example 1" style={{ maxWidth: '50%', width: '100%' }} />
<img src="/img/docgen/docgen-excel.png" alt="Excel Document Generation Example 2" style={{ maxWidth: '50%', width: '100%' }} />
</div>

### Excel Template Support

The Document Generation API fully supports Excel templates with:
- **Variable substitution** in cells
- **Formula preservation** (recalculation is not supported due to Excel's security model)
- **Image embedding** in spreadsheets
- :warning: **Order Table variables** are not supported due to Excel's limitations with direct HTML rendering

### Excel Variable Syntax

#### Cell Variables
```
A1: {{customer_name}}
B1: {{order_date}}
```

#### Images in Excel
```
Cell A1: {{% product_image }}
Cell B2: {{% chart_url }}
```

### Excel Generation Example

**Request:**
```json
{
  "template_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
      "key": "templates/report-template.xlsx"
    }
  },
  "context_entity_id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4",
  "variable_payload": {
    "report_title": "Q4 Sales Report",
    "sales_data": [
      {"month": "October", "revenue": 125000},
      {"month": "November", "revenue": 145000},
      {"month": "December", "revenue": 168000}
    ],
    "chart_image": "https://charts.example.com/q4-sales.png"
  }
}
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. Variables Not Replaced
- **Check variable syntax**: Ensure correct use of `{{}}` brackets
- **Verify data source**: Check if variable exists in payload or entity
- **Review precedence**: Remember `variable_payload` overrides entity data

#### 2. Image Not Rendering
- **Check URL format**: Use `{{% url }}` with correct syntax
- **Verify image access**: Ensure image URL is accessible
- **Label filtering**: Confirm images have correct labels when using filters

#### 3. Loop Syntax Errors
- **Array notation**: Use `[*]` for all items, `[...label]` for filtered
- **Closing tags**: Ensure matching opening and closing loop tags
- **Margin conflicts**: Remove `{{~order_table mt=2 mb=2}}` when using loops

#### 4. Excel Formula Issues
- **Formula preservation**: Use standard Excel formula syntax
- **Variable in formulas**: Wrap variables in appropriate functions

## Code Examples

### JavaScript/TypeScript Client

```typescript
import { DocumentClient } from '@epilot/document-client';

const client = new DocumentClient(...);

// Generate document
async function generateInvoice(customerId: string) {
  const response = await client.generateDocument({
    template_document: {
      s3ref: {
        bucket: 'epilot-files-prod',
        key: 'templates/invoice.docx'
      }
    },
    context_entity_id: customerId,
    variable_payload: {
      invoice_date: new Date().toISOString(),
      due_date: new Date(Date.now() + 30 * 24 * 60 * 60 * 1000).toISOString()
    }
  });

  return response.pdf.preview_url;
}

// Extract template metadata
async function analyzeTemplate(templateRef: S3Reference) {
  const metadata = await client.getTemplateMeta({
    template_document: { s3ref: templateRef }
  });

  console.log('Variables found:', metadata.variables);
  console.log('Page margins:', metadata.page_margins);

  return metadata;
}
```

### cURL Examples

```bash
# Extract template metadata
curl -X POST https://api.epilot.cloud/v2/documents:meta \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "template_document": {
      "s3ref": {
        "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
        "key": "templates/contract.docx"
      }
    }
  }'

# Generate document
curl -X POST https://api.epilot.cloud/v2/documents:generate \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "template_document": {
      "s3ref": {
        "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
        "key": "templates/invoice.docx"
      }
    },
    "context_entity_id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
    "variable_payload": {
      "custom_message": "Thank you for your business!"
    }
  }'
```

## Advanced Features

### Template Settings
Customize document appearance:
```json
{
  "template_settings": {
    "top_margin": 1440,
    "bottom_margin": 1440,
    "left_margin": 1080,
    "right_margin": 1080,
    "show_guidelines": false,
    "enable_headers": true,
    "enable_footers": true
  }
}
```

### Job Status Tracking

For async operations, track job status:

```typescript
// Initial request returns job_id
const { job_id } = await client.generateDocument({ ... });

// Poll for status
const checkStatus = async (jobId: string) => {
  const response = await client.getJobStatus(jobId);

  switch(response.job_status) {
    case 'STARTED':
    case 'PROCESSING':
      // Still processing, check again later
      setTimeout(() => checkStatus(jobId), 2000);
      break;
    case 'SUCCESS':
      // Document ready
      console.log('Document URL:', response.pdf.preview_url);
      break;
    case 'FAILED':
      // Handle error
      console.error('Generation failed:', response.error);
      break;
  }
};
```

## Support

For additional references:
- **API Documentation**: [API Reference](/api/document)
- **SDK**: [@epilot/document-client](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/document-client)

Commit message:

docs: Add language context documentation for doc generation in workflow automations
- Add important note about passing activity_id when triggering automation
  executions to ensure language context is available for translations
- Document that language parameter is critical for salutation, yn helper,
  and date/currency formatting
- Add troubleshooting section for missing/incorrect translation issues
- Document fallback behavior when language is not explicitly set

This addresses issues where document generation triggered via workflow
task automations (flows) produces incorrect salutation translations
because the language context is not being passed through.

Slack thread: https://epilot.slack.com/archives/C0ADDKKTLVD/p1771151913574319?thread_ts=1771151521.362609&cid=C0ADDKKTLVD

https://claude.ai/code/session_01U63h6c6XWwWSjjFbfZ9DHG

docs/files/document-generation.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Document Generation

[[API Docs](/api/document)]
[[SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/document-client)]

## Overview

The Document Generation API is a powerful serverless document processing service that enables dynamic document creation from templates. It supports multiple input and output formats, advanced variable substitution, image handling with loops, and Excel generation capabilities.

### Key Features
- **Multi-format Support**: Process DOCX, XLSX, XLS, XLSM, and ICS templates
- **Variable Substitution**: Replace template variables with dynamic data from entities
- **Image Processing**: Direct image embedding with size control and loop support
- **PDF Generation**: Convert documents to PDF with preview URLs
- **Excel Support**: Full spreadsheet generation with formula preservation
- **Async Processing**: Handle large documents with job tracking
- **Multi-language**: Support for English and German localization

### Architecture
The service uses a dual-Lambda architecture:
- **API Handler Function**: REST API router for synchronous operations (Node.js 22)
- **Generate Document Function**: Dockerized Lambda for async document processing (Node.js 18 + Python)

## API Endpoints

### 1. Extract Template Metadata

Extract metadata and variables from document templates.

**Endpoint:** `POST /v2/documents:meta`

**Supported Formats:**
- `.docx`, `.doc` - Word documents
- `.xlsx`, `.xls`, `.xlsm` - Excel spreadsheets

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "template_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
      "key": "123/templates/contract-template.docx"
    }
  }
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "page_margins": {
    "top": 1440,
    "bottom": 1440,
    "left": 1440,
    "right": 1440,
    "header": 720,
    "footer": 720
  },
  "variables": [
    "customer_name",
    "order.billing_contact.0.salutation",
    "items[0].description",
    "opportunities[Primary].value"
  ]
}
```

### 2. Generate Documents

Generate documents from templates with variable substitution.

**Endpoint:** `POST /v2/documents:generate`

**Supported Input Formats:**
- `.docx` - Word documents
- `.xlsx`, `.xls`, `.xlsm` - Excel spreadsheets
- `.ics` - Calendar files

**Supported Output Formats:**
- `.pdf` - PDF with preview URL
- `.docx` - Word document (text-only mode)
- `.xlsx` - Excel spreadsheet
- `.ics` - Calendar format

**Query Parameters:**
- `job_id` - Track async generation status
- `mode` - Generation mode:
  - `partial_generation` - User validation before final output
  - `full_generation` (default) - Complete generation in one step
- `preview_mode` - Preview behavior:
  - `open` - Open in browser
  - `download` (default) - Force download

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "template_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
      "key": "123/templates/invoice-template.docx"
    },
    "filename": "invoice-template.docx"
  },
  "context_entity_id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "user_id": "user_123",
  "language": "en",
  "variable_payload": {
    "custom_field": "Override value",
    "discount": 15
  },
  "template_settings": {
    "top_margin": 1440,
    "bottom_margin": 1440,
    "show_guidelines": false
  }
}
```

:::important Language Parameter for Translations
The `language` parameter (values: `"en"` or `"de"`) is critical for proper translation of:
- **Salutation fields** (e.g., "Mr." vs "Herr", "Ms./Mrs." vs "Frau")
- **Yes/No values** via the `{{yn}}` helper
- **Date and currency formatting**

If `language` is not provided, the API falls back to:
1. User preferences from `user_id` lookup
2. Organization default settings

When triggering document generation from [Workflow Task Automations](/docs/workflows/workflow-automations), ensure the language context is properly passed to avoid missing or incorrect translations.
:::

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "job_id": "job_550e8400",
  "job_status": "SUCCESS",
  "pdf": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-generated-documents",
      "key": "123/output/invoice.pdf"
    },
    "preview_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/...",
    "filename": "invoice.pdf"
  },
  "docx": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-generated-documents",
      "key": "123/output/invoice.docx"
    },
    "preview_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/...",
    "filename": "invoice.docx"
  },
  "variable_payload": {
    "customer_name": "John Doe",
    "custom_field": "Override value",
    "discount": 15
  }
}
```

### 3. Convert Documents

Convert documents between formats (currently DOCX to PDF).

**Endpoint:** `POST /v2/documents:convert`

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "input_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
      "key": "123/documents/contract.docx"
    }
  },
  "output_format": "pdf",
  "output_filename": "contract-converted.pdf",
  "language": "en"
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "output_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-generated-documents",
      "key": "123/converted/contract-converted.pdf"
    },
    "preview_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/...",
    "filename": "contract-converted.pdf"
  }
}
```

## Template Variables

### Basic Variable Syntax

Templates use double curly braces for variable substitution:

```
{{variable_name}}              // Simple variable
{{customer.name}}               // Nested object
{{address.street.number}}       // Deep nesting
{{items.0.price}}              // Alternative array syntax
{{opportunities[Primary].value}} // Label-lookup array access
{{data["special-key"]}}        // Bracket notation for special characters on Label Lookups
```

### Variable Resolution Order

Variables are resolved in the following precedence order:
1. **`variable_payload`** - Explicitly provided values (highest priority)
2. **`context_data`** - Additional context data
3. **Template Variables API** - Entity attributes from `context_entity_id`
4. **User Preferences** - Language settings from `user_id`

### Complex Variable Examples

```
// Customer information
{{customer.first_name}} {{customer.last_name}}
{{customer.address.0.street}}
{{customer.contacts[billing].email}}

// Order details with calculations
{{ calc "ROUND((price * qty) * (1 - discount), 2)" }}
{{order.total_amount}}

// Conditional display (in supported templates)
{{#has_discount}}
  Discount: {{discount_percentage}}%
{{/has_discount}}
```

You can find more examples about calculation variables [here](https://docs.epilot.io/docs/templates/template-variables#excel-like-formulas).

## Image Variables

### Basic Image Syntax

Images can be embedded in documents using the special syntax:

#### Direct Image URL
```
{{% image_url }}
```
This renders the image at its original size.

#### Image with Size Control
Use an image placeholder in your template and set the variable in the alt text:
1. Insert an image placeholder in your Word/Excel template
2. Set the alt text to: `{{% image_url }}`
3. The placeholder image dimensions will control the rendered size

### Image Loops and Collections

<div style={{display: 'flex', gap: '20px', marginBottom: '20px', alignItems: 'center'}}>
<img src="/img/docgen/docgen-images-p-1.png" alt="Document Generation Images Example 1" style={{ maxWidth: '50%', width: '100%' }} />
<img src="/img/docgen/docgen-images-p-2.png" alt="Document Generation Images Example 2" style={{ maxWidth: '50%', width: '100%' }} />
</div>


#### Mapping Journey Submissions to File Attributes

Since the global `_files` attribute is not yet supported, you need to map Journey submission fields to file attributes. For example, map a journey field to `my_journey_images`.

#### Basic Image Loop
```
{{#my_journey_images[*]}}
    {{% public_url }}
{{/my_journey_images[*]}}
```
This iterates through all images in the collection.

#### Filtered Image Loop by Label
```
{{#my_journey_images[...solar-panel]}}
    {{% public_url }}
{{/my_journey_images[...solar-panel]}}
```
This only includes images with the label "solar-panel".

#### Complete Example with Formatting
```
{{#property_images[*]}}
    Property Image:
    {{% public_url }}

    Description: {{ _title }}
    Uploaded: {{ _created_at }}
{{/property_images[*]}}
```

### Automatic Public URL Generation

The Document Generation service automatically handles private images:
- Private images are automatically converted to signed URLs with temporary access credentials
- These signed URLs include encrypted authentication tokens that grant time-limited access
- URLs expire shortly after document processing completes for security

### Important Compatibility Note

⚠️ **Order Tables with Margin Corrections are Incompatible with Loops**

Templates containing order tables with margin corrections like:
```
{{~order_table mt=2 mb=2}}
```

**Cannot** be used with image loops or any FOR_LOOP constructs.

**Solution:** Remove the margin correction variables and adjust margins directly in your Word template using Word's built-in margin settings.

## Excel Generation

<div style={{display: 'flex', gap: '20px', marginBottom: '20px', alignItems: 'center'}}>
<img src="/img/docgen/docgen-excel-1.png" alt="Excel Document Generation Example 1" style={{ maxWidth: '50%', width: '100%' }} />
<img src="/img/docgen/docgen-excel.png" alt="Excel Document Generation Example 2" style={{ maxWidth: '50%', width: '100%' }} />
</div>

### Excel Template Support

The Document Generation API fully supports Excel templates with:
- **Variable substitution** in cells
- **Formula preservation** (recalculation is not supported due to Excel's security model)
- **Image embedding** in spreadsheets
- :warning: **Order Table variables** are not supported due to Excel's limitations with direct HTML rendering

### Excel Variable Syntax

#### Cell Variables
```
A1: {{customer_name}}
B1: {{order_date}}
```

#### Images in Excel
```
Cell A1: {{% product_image }}
Cell B2: {{% chart_url }}
```

### Excel Generation Example

**Request:**
```json
{
  "template_document": {
    "s3ref": {
      "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
      "key": "templates/report-template.xlsx"
    }
  },
  "context_entity_id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4",
  "variable_payload": {
    "report_title": "Q4 Sales Report",
    "sales_data": [
      {"month": "October", "revenue": 125000},
      {"month": "November", "revenue": 145000},
      {"month": "December", "revenue": 168000}
    ],
    "chart_image": "https://charts.example.com/q4-sales.png"
  }
}
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. Variables Not Replaced
- **Check variable syntax**: Ensure correct use of `{{}}` brackets
- **Verify data source**: Check if variable exists in payload or entity
- **Review precedence**: Remember `variable_payload` overrides entity data

#### 2. Salutation or Other Translations Missing/Incorrect
- **Check language parameter**: Ensure `language` is set to `"en"` or `"de"` in the request
- **Verify user_id**: If `language` is not set, ensure `user_id` is provided for user preference lookup
- **Workflow automations**: When using [Workflow Task Automations](/docs/workflows/workflow-automations), ensure `activity_id` is passed to provide language context
- **Manual vs Automation**: Document generation triggered manually has access to user context; automations triggered programmatically (e.g., from flows) may need explicit language configuration

#### 3. Image Not Rendering
- **Check URL format**: Use `{{% url }}` with correct syntax
- **Verify image access**: Ensure image URL is accessible
- **Label filtering**: Confirm images have correct labels when using filters

#### 4. Loop Syntax Errors
- **Array notation**: Use `[*]` for all items, `[...label]` for filtered
- **Closing tags**: Ensure matching opening and closing loop tags
- **Margin conflicts**: Remove `{{~order_table mt=2 mb=2}}` when using loops

#### 5. Excel Formula Issues
- **Formula preservation**: Use standard Excel formula syntax
- **Variable in formulas**: Wrap variables in appropriate functions

## Code Examples

### JavaScript/TypeScript Client

```typescript
import { DocumentClient } from '@epilot/document-client';

const client = new DocumentClient(...);

// Generate document
async function generateInvoice(customerId: string) {
  const response = await client.generateDocument({
    template_document: {
      s3ref: {
        bucket: 'epilot-files-prod',
        key: 'templates/invoice.docx'
      }
    },
    context_entity_id: customerId,
    variable_payload: {
      invoice_date: new Date().toISOString(),
      due_date: new Date(Date.now() + 30 * 24 * 60 * 60 * 1000).toISOString()
    }
  });

  return response.pdf.preview_url;
}

// Extract template metadata
async function analyzeTemplate(templateRef: S3Reference) {
  const metadata = await client.getTemplateMeta({
    template_document: { s3ref: templateRef }
  });

  console.log('Variables found:', metadata.variables);
  console.log('Page margins:', metadata.page_margins);

  return metadata;
}
```

### cURL Examples

```bash
# Extract template metadata
curl -X POST https://api.epilot.cloud/v2/documents:meta \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "template_document": {
      "s3ref": {
        "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
        "key": "templates/contract.docx"
      }
    }
  }'

# Generate document
curl -X POST https://api.epilot.cloud/v2/documents:generate \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "template_document": {
      "s3ref": {
        "bucket": "epilot-files-prod",
        "key": "templates/invoice.docx"
      }
    },
    "context_entity_id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
    "variable_payload": {
      "custom_message": "Thank you for your business!"
    }
  }'
```

## Advanced Features

### Template Settings
Customize document appearance:
```json
{
  "template_settings": {
    "top_margin": 1440,
    "bottom_margin": 1440,
    "left_margin": 1080,
    "right_margin": 1080,
    "show_guidelines": false,
    "enable_headers": true,
    "enable_footers": true
  }
}
```

### Job Status Tracking

For async operations, track job status:

```typescript
// Initial request returns job_id
const { job_id } = await client.generateDocument({ ... });

// Poll for status
const checkStatus = async (jobId: string) => {
  const response = await client.getJobStatus(jobId);

  switch(response.job_status) {
    case 'STARTED':
    case 'PROCESSING':
      // Still processing, check again later
      setTimeout(() => checkStatus(jobId), 2000);
      break;
    case 'SUCCESS':
      // Document ready
      console.log('Document URL:', response.pdf.preview_url);
      break;
    case 'FAILED':
      // Handle error
      console.error('Generation failed:', response.error);
      break;
  }
};
```

## Support

For additional references:
- **API Documentation**: [API Reference](/api/document)
- **SDK**: [@epilot/document-client](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/document-client)
