docs/auth/access-tokens.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Access Tokens

[[API Docs](/api/access-token)]
[[SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/access-token-client)]

To call epilot APIs from 3rd party applications, requests must be authorized using a valid _Access Token_.

The Bearer's Token is passed in the `Authorization` request header.

```
Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>
```

## Access Token API

Authenticated users can generate long-term access tokens for 3rd party applications using the epilot [Access Token API](/api/access-token) `createAccessToken` operation.

```
POST /v1/access-tokens
```

```json
{
  "name": "Token for my application"
}
```

Optionally, you can pass a list of Role IDs, to define the roles the access token will have access to. By default, the access token inherits the caller's roles.

```
POST /v1/access-tokens
```

```json
{
  "name": "Postman Access Token",
  "assume_roles": ["123:owner"]
}
```

Each Access Token generated via the API gets a generated a unique ID.

```json
// 201 - success
{
  "id": "api_5ZugdRXasLfWBypHi93Fk",
  "created_at": "2019-08-24T14:15:22Z",
  "name": "Postman Access Token",
  "assignments": ["123:owner"]
}
```

## Revoking Access Tokens

Access tokens may also be revoked using the `revokeAccessToken` operation

```
DELETE /v1/access-tokens/api_5ZugdRXasLfWBypHi93Fk
```

```json
// 200 - success
{
  "id": "api_5ZugdRXasLfWBypHi93Fk",
  "created_at": "2019-08-24T14:15:22Z",
  "name": "Postman Access Token",
  "assignments": ["123:owner"]
}
```

Commit message:

Add screenshots for access token management

docs/auth/access-tokens.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Access Tokens

[[API Docs](/api/access-token)]
[[SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/access-token-client)]

To call epilot APIs from 3rd party applications, requests must be authorized using a valid _Access Token_.

The Bearer's Token is passed in the `Authorization` request header.

```
Authorization: Bearer <your-access-token>
```

## Generating Access Tokens

Administrator users with the `token:create` permission can [create and manage Access Tokens](https://portal.epilot.cloud/app/tokens) from the 360 Portal.

![Access Token Link via Configuration Menu](../../static/img/access-token-menu.png)

Long term Access Tokens for API usage can be generated by clicking "Generate New Token" in the Access Token Management view.

![Access Token management view](../../static/img/access-token-management.png)
![Access Token create view](../../static/img/access-token-create.png)

When creating an access token, the generated token is shown only once after creation and must be stored by the user.

> Warning: epilot doesn't store and cannot recover lost or revoked access tokens.

## Access Token API

Authenticated users can generate long-term access tokens for 3rd party applications using the epilot [Access Token API](/api/access-token) `createAccessToken` operation.

```
POST /v1/access-tokens
```

```json
{
  "name": "Token for my application"
}
```

Optionally, you can pass a list of Role IDs, to define the roles the access token will have access to. By default, the access token inherits the caller's roles.

```
POST /v1/access-tokens
```

```json
{
  "name": "Postman Access Token",
  "assume_roles": ["123:owner"]
}
```

Each Access Token generated via the API gets a generated a unique ID.

```json
// 201 - success
{
  "id": "api_5ZugdRXasLfWBypHi93Fk",
  "created_at": "2019-08-24T14:15:22Z",
  "name": "Postman Access Token",
  "assignments": ["123:owner"]
}
```

## Revoking Access Tokens

Access tokens may also be revoked using the `revokeAccessToken` operation

```
DELETE /v1/access-tokens/api_5ZugdRXasLfWBypHi93Fk
```

```json
// 200 - success
{
  "id": "api_5ZugdRXasLfWBypHi93Fk",
  "created_at": "2019-08-24T14:15:22Z",
  "name": "Postman Access Token",
  "assignments": ["123:owner"]
}
```
