docs/portals/customer-portal.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Overview

[[API Docs](/api/customer-portal)]
[[SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/customer-portal-client)]
[[Setup Docs](https://help.epilot.cloud/hc/de/articles/4417739340050-Kundenportal-einrichten-epilot-360-)]

White-label Portals offering from epilot enables seamless interaction between administrators and customers, offering a tailored and collaborative experience. Administrators have the power to build the portal from generic and purpose-built blocks with a custom logic, own branding, company domain, personalized email communication, and secure granular permissions. End-users (like end customers and installers), on the other hand, can easily access their data and perform pre-configured actions.

- [Administrator Actions](#administrator-actions)
- [End-user Actions](#end-user-actions)
- [Architecture](/docs/portals/architecture)
- [Metering](/docs/portals/metering)
- [Webhooks](/docs/portals/portal-webhooks)

## Administrator Actions

[[API Docs](/api/customer-portal/#tag/ECP-Admin)]

Administrators play a crucial role in configuring and managing the portal. By defining domain configurations, administrators ensure that the portal is accessible on the desired URL. They can also create email templates for various processes, such as registration confirmation, password recovery, and invitation emails.

Additionally, administrators can define granular permissions for the portals individually, granting or restricting access to specific features, entities, or actions. This ensures that customers/installers have appropriate privileges based on their roles and responsibilities. This streamlined approach enhances usability while maintaining the necessary security measures. 

Furthermore, administrators can configure entity identifiers, allowing customers to search for specific entities based on the configured fields. This empowers administrators to tailor the portal to their business needs, providing customers with efficient ways to access and retrieve information. Additionally, administrators can set up entity actions, granting customers/installers the ability to participate in journeys and provide updates and information related to entities like opportunities, contracts, and orders. This enhances collaboration and streamlines service processes within the portal.

## End-user Actions

[[API Docs](/api/customer-portal/#tag/ECP)]

Customers/Installers benefit from the APIs by gaining convenient access to the portal and their respective entities. They can log in and seamlessly navigate through the portal to view and interact with their entities. With the help of configured entity identifiers, customers can easily search for specific entities based on relevant fields, saving time and effort in finding the desired information and avoid contacting the organization.

One of the key capabilities for customers/installers is the ability to trigger service processes directly from the portal. Customers/Installers can initiate these processes by making direct data changes to the entities they have access to, based on the permissions granted to them by administrators. This empowers customers/installers to actively engage and participate in the service processes, saving time and facilitating smooth communication between the customers and the organization.

Here are a few examples of actions that customers/installers can perform through the portal:

1. Adding Additional Information to an Opportunity: As an installer, s[he] can provide additional information about a photovoltaic (PV) panel to an existing opportunity. By leveraging the "edit" permissions granted by administrators, the installer can update the opportunity with specific details, such as technical specifications or pricing options related to the PV panel. This ensures that the organization has the most up-to-date and accurate information to further the opportunity.

2. Changing the Delivery Address within a Contract: Customers, such as end-users, may need to update their delivery address for an ongoing contract. Through the portal, they can easily modify the contract's delivery address, ensuring that the products or services are delivered to the correct location. This flexibility allows customers to manage their contracts efficiently and make necessary adjustments as their circumstances change.

3. Adding New Information to a Contact: Installers may acquire new qualifications or certifications that are relevant to their contact information. By accessing their contact details through the portal, they can add this new information, such as their gained education or training, to ensure that the organization has the most accurate and complete profile. This enables the organization to stay informed about the installer's updated qualifications and provide tailored services based on their expertise.

Overall, these APIs foster a collaborative environment where administrators configure and manage the portal, while customers/installers enjoy a seamless and personalized experience, accessing, and interacting with their entities efficiently.

Commit message:

Overhauled docs to bring up to date

docs/portals/customer-portal.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Overview

[[API Docs](/api/customer-portal)]
[[SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/customer-portal-client)]
[[Setup Docs](https://help.epilot.cloud/hc/de/articles/4417739340050-Kundenportal-einrichten-epilot-360-)]

epilot Portals are white-label, self-service interfaces that connect organizations with their end-users (customers and installers). Administrators build portals from configurable blocks with custom branding, domain, email templates, and granular permissions. End-users access their data and perform pre-configured actions.

- [Administrator Actions](#administrator-actions)
- [End-user Actions](#end-user-actions)
- [Architecture](/docs/portals/architecture)
- [Metering](/docs/portals/metering)
- [Webhooks](/docs/portals/portal-webhooks)

## Administrator Actions

[[API Docs](/api/customer-portal/#tag/ECP-Admin)]

Administrators configure and manage the portal through a set of APIs:

- **Domain configuration** -- set the URL where the portal is accessible (custom domain or epilot subdomain).
- **Email templates** -- create templates for registration confirmation, password recovery, and invitation emails.
- **Granular permissions** -- grant or restrict access to specific features, entities, or actions per portal. This controls what end-users can see and do based on their roles.
- **Entity identifiers** -- configure which fields end-users can use to search for entities (contracts, orders, opportunities).
- **Entity actions** -- define actions that let end-users participate in journeys and submit updates to entities.

## End-user Actions

[[API Docs](/api/customer-portal/#tag/ECP)]

End-users log in to the portal to view and interact with their entities. Using configured entity identifiers, they search for specific records without contacting the organization directly.

End-users can also trigger service processes by modifying entity data within the boundaries of their granted permissions. Examples:

1. **Add details to an opportunity** -- An installer adds PV panel specifications (technical details, pricing) to an existing opportunity using edit permissions.
2. **Update a delivery address** -- A customer changes the delivery address on an active contract.
3. **Enrich contact information** -- An installer adds newly acquired certifications or qualifications to their contact profile.
