apps/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
hide_title: true
slug: /
sidebar_position: 1
description: "Welcome to the epilot Developer Platform documentation!"
---

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p align="center"><a href="/"><img src="/img/logo.png" width="150" /></a></p>

<h1 align="center">Building Apps for epilot</h1>

<p align="center">Welcome to the epilot Developer Platform! This comprehensive guide will help you create, publish, and maintain powerful integrations that extend the capabilities of the epilot platform—whether you're a new developer or an experienced partner.</p>

## What are Apps?
Apps on epilot are customizable extensions that enhance and expand the platform's core functionality. They serve as building blocks that allow developers to create tailored solutions for energy and utility companies without modifying the underlying platform.

At their core, epilot apps are modular integrations that can be developed, published, and installed by customers through the marketplace. Apps can include various components like custom journey blocks that guide users through specific processes, portal extensions that enhance user interfaces, and integrations with third-party services.
Each app functions as a self-contained package that can be versioned, updated, and configured by users based on their specific needs. 

Apps follow a standardized development and publication workflow, making it possible for both epilot's team and external partners to extend the platform's capabilities in consistent and maintainable ways.

Whether you're looking to create a simple integration or build a comprehensive solution, the epilot app framework provides the tools, APIs, and infrastructure needed to develop professional-grade extensions that solve real business problems in the energy and utility space.

## App Components on epilot

Apps on epilot consist of modular components that extend platform functionality in specific ways. Each component type addresses different integration needs and can be combined within a single app to create comprehensive solutions.

See the [App Components](/apps/about-apps/components/overview) section for detailed information on each component type.

### Current Component Types

**Custom Journey Blocks**: Web components that integrate into Journey Builder to collect data, perform calculations, or display interactive elements.

**Portal Extensions**: Components that enhance epilot's customer and installer portals with additional functionality and visualizations.

**External Product Catalog**: Components that integrate third-party product catalogs into epilot.

### Upcoming Component Types (Roadmap)

1. **Custom Automation Tasks**: Define custom automation tasks that can be triggered within epilot's automation workflows.
2. **Custom Journey Design**: Create custom designs for customer journeys, including layouts, styles, and interactive elements.
3. **Email Plugins**: Extensions for customizing and enhancing email templates and functionality.

## Why Build on epilot?

### Industry-Specific Platform
Build solutions specifically designed for the energy and utility industry, with access to domain-specific data models and workflows that address the unique challenges of this sector.

### API-First Architecture
Our comprehensive API suite provides access to the full capabilities of the epilot platform, empowering you to build deeply integrated solutions with minimal friction.

### Growing Ecosystem
Join a thriving community of developers and partners building innovative solutions for the energy transition:

- Access a marketplace of energy industry customers
- Monetize your innovations through our partner program
- Collaborate with industry experts
- Stay at the forefront with regular platform updates

### Enterprise-Ready Infrastructure
Your apps run on the same robust infrastructure that powers epilot:

- Secure authentication and authorization
- Scalable cloud architecture
- Comprehensive monitoring and logging
- Compliant with European data regulations

## Get Started

Ready to build your first epilot app? Our step-by-step guide will walk you through the entire process, from setting up your development environment to publishing your first app.

Commit message:

Remove GraphQL + document App Surfaces

apps/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
hide_title: true
slug: /
sidebar_position: 1
description: "Welcome to the epilot Developer Platform documentation!"
---

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p align="center"><a href="/"><img src="/img/logo.png" width="150" /></a></p>

<h1 align="center">Building Apps for epilot</h1>

<p align="center">Welcome to the epilot Developer Platform! This comprehensive guide will help you create, publish, and maintain powerful integrations that extend the capabilities of the epilot platform—whether you're a new developer or an experienced partner.</p>

## What are Apps?
Apps on epilot are customizable extensions that enhance and expand the platform's core functionality. They serve as building blocks that allow developers to create tailored solutions for energy and utility companies without modifying the underlying platform.

At their core, epilot apps are modular integrations that can be developed, published, and installed by customers through the marketplace. Apps can include various components like custom journey blocks that guide users through specific processes, portal extensions that enhance user interfaces, and integrations with third-party services.
Each app functions as a self-contained package that can be versioned, updated, and configured by users based on their specific needs. 

Apps follow a standardized development and publication workflow, making it possible for both epilot's team and external partners to extend the platform's capabilities in consistent and maintainable ways.

Whether you're looking to create a simple integration or build a comprehensive solution, the epilot app framework provides the tools, APIs, and infrastructure needed to develop professional-grade extensions that solve real business problems in the energy and utility space.

## App Components on epilot

Apps on epilot consist of modular components that extend platform functionality in specific ways. Each component type addresses different integration needs and can be combined within a single app to create comprehensive solutions.

See the [App Components](/apps/about-apps/components/overview) section for detailed information on each component type, and [App Surfaces](/apps/app-surfaces) to learn how your app communicates with the epilot platform using the `@epilot/app-bridge` library.

### Current Component Types

**Custom Journey Blocks**: Web components that integrate into Journey Builder to collect data, perform calculations, or display interactive elements.

**Portal Extensions**: Components that enhance epilot's customer and installer portals with additional functionality and visualizations.

**External Product Catalog**: Components that integrate third-party product catalogs into epilot.

### Upcoming Component Types (Roadmap)

1. **Custom Automation Tasks**: Define custom automation tasks that can be triggered within epilot's automation workflows.
2. **Custom Journey Design**: Create custom designs for customer journeys, including layouts, styles, and interactive elements.
3. **Email Plugins**: Extensions for customizing and enhancing email templates and functionality.

## Why Build on epilot?

### Industry-Specific Platform
Build solutions specifically designed for the energy and utility industry, with access to domain-specific data models and workflows that address the unique challenges of this sector.

### API-First Architecture
Our comprehensive API suite provides access to the full capabilities of the epilot platform, empowering you to build deeply integrated solutions with minimal friction.

### Growing Ecosystem
Join a thriving community of developers and partners building innovative solutions for the energy transition:

- Access a marketplace of energy industry customers
- Monetize your innovations through our partner program
- Collaborate with industry experts
- Stay at the forefront with regular platform updates

### Enterprise-Ready Infrastructure
Your apps run on the same robust infrastructure that powers epilot:

- Secure authentication and authorization
- Scalable cloud architecture
- Comprehensive monitoring and logging
- Compliant with European data regulations

## Get Started

Ready to build your first epilot app? Our step-by-step guide will walk you through the entire process, from setting up your development environment to publishing your first app.
