docs/intro.md, before:

---
title: Overview
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 1
---

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p align="center"><a href="/"><img src="/img/logo.png" width="150" /></a></p>

<h1 align="center">Documentation</h1>

<p align="center">Learn the basics of using epilot developer tools and APIs to unlock the potential of the epilot 360 platform.</p>

## Architecture

Understand the basics of the epilot platform and learn core concepts like entities, authentication and automation.

[Overview](/docs/architecture/overview) - [Tech Stack](/docs/architecture/overview#tech-stack)

## APIs

Explore and learn to use our APIs to build your own solutions on epilot.

[Overview](/docs/architecture/api-first) - [Docs](/api)

## SDK

Explore our developer tools and get started with the epilot SDK

[Overview](/docs/architecture/sdk)

## Contact us

You can always [open an issue](https://github.com/epilot-dev/docs/issues) on our GitHub repository, or if you're already a customer, contact us via customer support to receive technical assistance.

Commit message:

Add Blueprints in the overview

docs/intro.md, after:

---
title: Overview
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 1
---

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p align="center"><a href="/"><img src="/img/logo.png" width="150" /></a></p>

<h1 align="center">Documentation</h1>

<p align="center">Learn the basics of using epilot developer tools and APIs to unlock the potential of the epilot 360 platform.</p>

## Architecture

Understand the basics of the epilot platform and learn core concepts like entities, authentication and automation.

[Overview](/docs/architecture/overview) - [Tech Stack](/docs/architecture/overview#tech-stack)

## APIs

Explore and learn to use our APIs to build your own solutions on epilot.

[Overview](/docs/architecture/api-first) - [Docs](/api)

## Blueprints

Explore Blueprint pipelines (Sandbox solution) and the upcoming Epilot Marketplace.

[Overview](/docs/blueprints/sandbox)

## SDK

Explore our developer tools and get started with the epilot SDK

[Overview](/docs/architecture/sdk)

## Contact us

You can always [open an issue](https://github.com/epilot-dev/docs/issues) on our GitHub repository, or if you're already a customer, contact us via customer support to receive technical assistance.
