docs/integrations/erp-toolkit/overview.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Overview
description: Introduction to the ERP Toolkit for integrating ERP systems with epilot
slug: /integrations/erp-toolkit/overview
---

# ERP Toolkit

The ERP Toolkit is epilot's opinionated integration platform for building, monitoring, and maintaining ERP integrations. It combines **standardized entity and event schemas**, **JSONata-based mapping**, **a dedicated inbound ingestion API**, **configuration APIs**, **central monitoring**, and **packaged Blueprints/Apps** into a single, cohesive system.

![ERP Toolkit High Level](/img/erp-toolkit-high-level.jpg)

The toolkit is optimized for energy-sector use cases: end-customer self-service via portals, meter reading propagation, contract lifecycle management, and billing account synchronization.

:::info
The ERP Toolkit does not remove the need for middleware. It standardizes the interface between epilot and your middle layer, radically reducing the complexity compared to direct API integration.
:::


## Components

The ERP Toolkit is composed of the following components. Each plays a specific role in the integration lifecycle.

| Component | Description | Status |
|-----------|-------------|--------|
| **[Integration Hub](#integration-hub)** | Admin UI in epilot 360 to configure and monitor integrations | In progress |
| **[ERP Integration API](#erp-integration-api)** | CRUD API to manage integrations, use cases, and mappings | Stable |
| **[ERP Inbound API](#inbound-api)** | Dedicated API to receive and simulate inbound ERP events | Stable |
| **[Use Cases](./use-cases)** | Documented integration flows with testing support | Stable |
| **[Core Entities](/docs/entities/core-entities)** | Standardized entity schemas for mapping targets | Stable |
| **[Core Events](/docs/integrations/core-events)** | Standardized event payloads for outbound notifications | Stable |
| **[Webhooks](/docs/integrations/webhooks)** | Push events from epilot to ERPs via core events | Stable |
| **[JSONata Mapping](#jsonata-mapping)** | Transformation language for inbound and outbound data | Stable |
| **[Monitoring and ACKs](#monitoring-and-acks)** | Central logging, error tracking, and event replay | In progress |
| **[Blueprints](https://marketplace.epilot.cloud/en/blueprints)** | Packaged, installable integration setups | Stable |
| **[Apps](https://marketplace.epilot.cloud/en/apps)** | Custom automation actions and portal extensions for ERP logic | In progress |

### Integration Hub

The Integration Hub is the administrative UI within epilot 360 (accessible at `/app/integrations`). It provides a guided wizard for activating ERP integrations, selecting self-service use cases, configuring mappings, running integration tests, and monitoring health.

### ERP Integration API

The `/v2/integrations` CRUD API centralizes all integration configuration in one place:

- **Environments** -- API URLs, tenant IDs, secrets
- **API tokens** with scoped roles and permissions
- **Inbound use cases** with entity mappings
- **Outbound use cases** with event mappings
- **Associated Apps and portal extensions**

See the [Configuration Guide](./configuration) for API details.

### Inbound API

Two dedicated endpoints for receiving ERP data:

| Endpoint | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `/v3/erp/updates/events` | Receive raw ERP data as events for processing |
| `/v2/erp/updates/mapping_simulation` | Dry-run events to verify mappings before going live |

See the [Inbound Integration Guide](./inbound/getting-started) for setup instructions.

### Use Cases

A **use case** is a documented ERP integration flow: a description of how epilot and the ERP work together to implement a specific scenario (e.g., "Keep Contract In Sync" or "Meter Reading Submission"). Each use case defines:

- Which core entities need to be mapped
- Which core events are sent or received
- Expected ERP behavior and response
- Testing via simulated events or webhook test triggers with ACK confirmation

See the [Use Cases](./use-cases) page for a complete list of inbound and outbound integration flows.

### JSONata Mapping

[JSONata](https://jsonata.org/) is the core transformation language for defining mappings between epilot's standardized entity/event schemas and ERP-specific data models. It is used across:

- Inbound event processing (ERP to epilot entity mapping)
- Outbound webhook payloads (epilot event to ERP format)
- The Map Data flow building block

### Monitoring and ACKs

All inbound and outbound events are centrally logged and surfaced in the Integration Hub. Key capabilities:

- **Event replay** -- reprocess failed events
- **ACK tracking** -- ERPs acknowledge processed events via `v1/erp/tracking/acknowledgement`, enabling end-to-end visibility
- **Error alerting** -- per-use-case status indicators with actionable error details
- **Partner log shipping** -- middleware partners can send logs to epilot for centralized monitoring

## Architecture

![ERP Toolkit Integration Architecture](/img/integrations/overview.svg)

## Integration Directions

### Inbound (ERP to epilot)

Push data from your ERP into epilot. Typical flows:

- Synchronize customer master data (contacts, accounts)
- Import contracts and subscriptions
- Submit meter readings and consumption data
- Update billing and payment information

[Inbound Integration Guide](./inbound/getting-started)

### Outbound (epilot to ERP)

Push epilot events to your ERP via webhooks. Typical flows:

- New customer registrations and portal sign-ups
- Contract changes (move-in, move-out, termination)
- Self-service requests (IBAN changes, installment adjustments)
- Meter reading submissions

Outbound events use [Core Events](/docs/integrations/core-events) and are delivered through [Webhooks](/docs/integrations/webhooks). JSONata transforms simplify payloads before delivery.

## Operational Model

The ERP Toolkit and your middle layer have clearly separated responsibilities.

| Toolkit (epilot) | Middle Layer (yours) |
|-------------------|---------------------|
| Stable schemas (core entities/events) and versioning | ERP connectivity (on-prem, VPN, ERP API calls) |
| Deduplication and idempotency | Domain-specific validation required by ERP |
| Inbound ingestion at scale with retries and mapping execution | ACK back to epilot for "processed" state |
| Central monitoring, replay, and retention | |
| Configuration APIs and UI | |

:::tip
Most integrations involve a middleware (e.g., SAP CPI) that handles ERP-specific connectivity and validation. The toolkit standardizes the epilot side so your middleware only needs to speak one protocol.
:::

## Integration Patterns

Two primary patterns exist. The right choice depends on your ERP's capabilities.

![Pull vs Event-Driven Integration Patterns](/img/integrations/pull-vs-event-driven.svg)

### Event-Driven (Direct)

Your ERP or middleware sends events directly to the ERP Toolkit when data changes.

**Best for:** systems that support webhooks, need real-time sync, and require minimal transformation beyond mapping configuration.

### Pull-Based (Delta Sync with Middleware)

A middleware layer periodically queries your ERP for changes and pushes them to the ERP Toolkit.

**Best for:** ERPs without webhook support, complex multi-source aggregation, or scenarios requiring custom validation and retry logic.

<details>
<summary>Comparison table</summary>

| Requirement | Event-Driven | Pull-Based |
|-------------|--------------|------------|
| ERP supports webhooks | Required | Not required |
| Real-time sync needed | Best fit | Depends on polling interval |
| Complex transformations | Limited to mapping config | Full flexibility |
| Custom validation logic | Limited | Full flexibility |
| Aggregating multiple sources | Not supported | Supported |
| Minimal infrastructure | Best fit | Requires middleware |

</details>

:::tip
Many integrations use a **hybrid approach**: event-driven for simple, real-time updates (e.g., contact changes) and pull-based for complex scenarios (e.g., aggregating invoice data from multiple systems).
:::

## Getting Started

1. **Create an integration** -- register your ERP connection via the [Configuration API](./configuration) or Integration Hub
2. **Configure use cases** -- define inbound/outbound data flows with entity mappings
3. **Test mappings** -- use the mapping simulation endpoint to validate before going live. See the [Mapping Examples](./mapping-examples) repo for a TDD approach
4. **Send events** -- push data from your ERP to the inbound API
5. **Monitor** -- track processing status, errors, and ACKs in the Integration Hub

Continue to the [Inbound Integration Guide](./inbound/getting-started) for step-by-step setup.

Commit message:

chore: add File Proxy cross-references to existing docs
Update overview, use-cases, configuration, and file-api docs with
links to the new File Proxy documentation page.

docs/integrations/erp-toolkit/overview.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Overview
description: Introduction to the ERP Toolkit for integrating ERP systems with epilot
slug: /integrations/erp-toolkit/overview
---

# ERP Toolkit

The ERP Toolkit is epilot's opinionated integration platform for building, monitoring, and maintaining ERP integrations. It combines **standardized entity and event schemas**, **JSONata-based mapping**, **a dedicated inbound ingestion API**, **configuration APIs**, **central monitoring**, and **packaged Blueprints/Apps** into a single, cohesive system.

![ERP Toolkit High Level](/img/erp-toolkit-high-level.jpg)

The toolkit is optimized for energy-sector use cases: end-customer self-service via portals, meter reading propagation, contract lifecycle management, and billing account synchronization.

:::info
The ERP Toolkit does not remove the need for middleware. It standardizes the interface between epilot and your middle layer, radically reducing the complexity compared to direct API integration.
:::


## Components

The ERP Toolkit is composed of the following components. Each plays a specific role in the integration lifecycle.

| Component | Description | Status |
|-----------|-------------|--------|
| **[Integration Hub](#integration-hub)** | Admin UI in epilot 360 to configure and monitor integrations | In progress |
| **[ERP Integration API](#erp-integration-api)** | CRUD API to manage integrations, use cases, and mappings | Stable |
| **[ERP Inbound API](#inbound-api)** | Dedicated API to receive and simulate inbound ERP events | Stable |
| **[Use Cases](./use-cases)** | Documented integration flows with testing support | Stable |
| **[Core Entities](/docs/entities/core-entities)** | Standardized entity schemas for mapping targets | Stable |
| **[Core Events](/docs/integrations/core-events)** | Standardized event payloads for outbound notifications | Stable |
| **[Webhooks](/docs/integrations/webhooks)** | Push events from epilot to ERPs via core events | Stable |
| **[JSONata Mapping](#jsonata-mapping)** | Transformation language for inbound and outbound data | Stable |
| **[File Proxy](./file-proxy)** | Serve files from external archives on demand without migrating them into epilot | Stable |
| **[Monitoring and ACKs](#monitoring-and-acks)** | Central logging, error tracking, and event replay | In progress |
| **[Blueprints](https://marketplace.epilot.cloud/en/blueprints)** | Packaged, installable integration setups | Stable |
| **[Apps](https://marketplace.epilot.cloud/en/apps)** | Custom automation actions and portal extensions for ERP logic | In progress |

### Integration Hub

The Integration Hub is the administrative UI within epilot 360 (accessible at `/app/integrations`). It provides a guided wizard for activating ERP integrations, selecting self-service use cases, configuring mappings, running integration tests, and monitoring health.

### ERP Integration API

The `/v2/integrations` CRUD API centralizes all integration configuration in one place:

- **Environments** -- API URLs, tenant IDs, secrets
- **API tokens** with scoped roles and permissions
- **Inbound use cases** with entity mappings
- **Outbound use cases** with event mappings
- **Associated Apps and portal extensions**

See the [Configuration Guide](./configuration) for API details.

### Inbound API

Two dedicated endpoints for receiving ERP data:

| Endpoint | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `/v3/erp/updates/events` | Receive raw ERP data as events for processing |
| `/v2/erp/updates/mapping_simulation` | Dry-run events to verify mappings before going live |

See the [Inbound Integration Guide](./inbound/getting-started) for setup instructions.

### Use Cases

A **use case** is a documented ERP integration flow: a description of how epilot and the ERP work together to implement a specific scenario (e.g., "Keep Contract In Sync" or "Meter Reading Submission"). Each use case defines:

- Which core entities need to be mapped
- Which core events are sent or received
- Expected ERP behavior and response
- Testing via simulated events or webhook test triggers with ACK confirmation

See the [Use Cases](./use-cases) page for a complete list of inbound and outbound integration flows.

### File Proxy

The [File Proxy](./file-proxy) enables epilot to serve files from external document systems (e.g., ERP archives, DMS) on demand. Instead of migrating file content during inbound sync, file entities are created with a `custom_download_url` pointing to the proxy. When a user views the file, the proxy fetches the document from the external system in real time using a declarative, multi-step HTTP configuration.

### JSONata Mapping

[JSONata](https://jsonata.org/) is the core transformation language for defining mappings between epilot's standardized entity/event schemas and ERP-specific data models. It is used across:

- Inbound event processing (ERP to epilot entity mapping)
- Outbound webhook payloads (epilot event to ERP format)
- The Map Data flow building block

### Monitoring and ACKs

All inbound and outbound events are centrally logged and surfaced in the Integration Hub. Key capabilities:

- **Event replay** -- reprocess failed events
- **ACK tracking** -- ERPs acknowledge processed events via `v1/erp/tracking/acknowledgement`, enabling end-to-end visibility
- **Error alerting** -- per-use-case status indicators with actionable error details
- **Partner log shipping** -- middleware partners can send logs to epilot for centralized monitoring

## Architecture

![ERP Toolkit Integration Architecture](/img/integrations/overview.svg)

## Integration Directions

### Inbound (ERP to epilot)

Push data from your ERP into epilot. Typical flows:

- Synchronize customer master data (contacts, accounts)
- Import contracts and subscriptions
- Submit meter readings and consumption data
- Update billing and payment information

[Inbound Integration Guide](./inbound/getting-started)

### Outbound (epilot to ERP)

Push epilot events to your ERP via webhooks. Typical flows:

- New customer registrations and portal sign-ups
- Contract changes (move-in, move-out, termination)
- Self-service requests (IBAN changes, installment adjustments)
- Meter reading submissions

Outbound events use [Core Events](/docs/integrations/core-events) and are delivered through [Webhooks](/docs/integrations/webhooks). JSONata transforms simplify payloads before delivery.

## Operational Model

The ERP Toolkit and your middle layer have clearly separated responsibilities.

| Toolkit (epilot) | Middle Layer (yours) |
|-------------------|---------------------|
| Stable schemas (core entities/events) and versioning | ERP connectivity (on-prem, VPN, ERP API calls) |
| Deduplication and idempotency | Domain-specific validation required by ERP |
| Inbound ingestion at scale with retries and mapping execution | ACK back to epilot for "processed" state |
| Central monitoring, replay, and retention | |
| Configuration APIs and UI | |

:::tip
Most integrations involve a middleware (e.g., SAP CPI) that handles ERP-specific connectivity and validation. The toolkit standardizes the epilot side so your middleware only needs to speak one protocol.
:::

## Integration Patterns

Two primary patterns exist. The right choice depends on your ERP's capabilities.

![Pull vs Event-Driven Integration Patterns](/img/integrations/pull-vs-event-driven.svg)

### Event-Driven (Direct)

Your ERP or middleware sends events directly to the ERP Toolkit when data changes.

**Best for:** systems that support webhooks, need real-time sync, and require minimal transformation beyond mapping configuration.

### Pull-Based (Delta Sync with Middleware)

A middleware layer periodically queries your ERP for changes and pushes them to the ERP Toolkit.

**Best for:** ERPs without webhook support, complex multi-source aggregation, or scenarios requiring custom validation and retry logic.

<details>
<summary>Comparison table</summary>

| Requirement | Event-Driven | Pull-Based |
|-------------|--------------|------------|
| ERP supports webhooks | Required | Not required |
| Real-time sync needed | Best fit | Depends on polling interval |
| Complex transformations | Limited to mapping config | Full flexibility |
| Custom validation logic | Limited | Full flexibility |
| Aggregating multiple sources | Not supported | Supported |
| Minimal infrastructure | Best fit | Requires middleware |

</details>

:::tip
Many integrations use a **hybrid approach**: event-driven for simple, real-time updates (e.g., contact changes) and pull-based for complex scenarios (e.g., aggregating invoice data from multiple systems).
:::

## Getting Started

1. **Create an integration** -- register your ERP connection via the [Configuration API](./configuration) or Integration Hub
2. **Configure use cases** -- define inbound/outbound data flows with entity mappings
3. **Test mappings** -- use the mapping simulation endpoint to validate before going live. See the [Mapping Examples](./mapping-examples) repo for a TDD approach
4. **Send events** -- push data from your ERP to the inbound API
5. **Monitor** -- track processing status, errors, and ACKs in the Integration Hub

Continue to the [Inbound Integration Guide](./inbound/getting-started) for step-by-step setup.
