docs/entities/flexible-entities.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Flexible Entities

[[API Docs](/api/entity)]
[[SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/entity-client)]

The epilot application uses a flexible _Entities_ data layer to model business data on the platform.

## Entities

Entities are business objects in epilot with flexible user-defineable schemas.

Each entity can contain arbitrary JSON data, which is made accessible via the Entity API.

## Schemas

Schemas represent different types of entities in epilot.

Examples of Entity Schemas:

- Contact
- Account
- Product
- Price
- Submission
- Order
- Opportunity
- File
- Message

The primary purpose of schemas is to control how the flexible entities are represented in the epilot portal UI.

## Attributes

Schemas define a list of Attributes, which are fields that the entity can have.

These Attributes are rendered in Tables and Details views for all entities of the Schema.

Examples of Attributes:

- First Name
- Last Name
- VAT ID
- Product Name
- Product SKU
- Order ID

## Capabilities

Entity Schemas define Capabilities for the entities, which add extra functionality in the entity views.

Some examples of entity capabilities:

- Email Messages
- File Attachments
- Order Item Table
- Workflow Overview
- Automation Actions

## Relations

Entities also natively support relations, meaning entities can be linked with each other.

Relations are stored as Relation attributes, containing a reference to the related entity and a list of labels to show on the relation item.

Example relation attribute value:

![Relation Attribute Example](../../static/img/entity-relation.png)

See [Relations](/docs/entities/relations) for more info.

## Activity

Any events related to the entity are stored in an append-only Activity feed.

Each activity item contains a description of the activity, the caller and details about any operations touching the data of the entity.

Commit message:

Add a list of core entity schemas

docs/entities/flexible-entities.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# Flexible Entities

[[API Docs](/api/entity)]
[[SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epilot/entity-client)]

The epilot application uses a flexible _Entities_ data layer to model business data on the platform.

## Entities

Entities are business objects in epilot with flexible user-defineable schemas.

Each entity can contain arbitrary JSON data, which is made accessible via the Entity API.

## Schemas

Schemas are used to define the structure of entities and how they are represented in the UI.

View full [List of Schemas](/docs/entities/schemas-list) page for more info.

## Attributes

Schemas define a list of Attributes, which are fields that the entity can have.

These Attributes are rendered in Tables and Details views for all entities of the Schema.

Examples of Attributes:

- First Name
- Last Name
- VAT ID
- Product Name
- Product SKU
- Order ID

## Capabilities

Entity Schemas define Capabilities for the entities, which add extra functionality in the entity views.

Some examples of entity capabilities:

- Email Messages
- File Attachments
- Order Item Table
- Workflow Overview
- Automation Actions

## Relations

Entities also natively support relations, meaning entities can be linked with each other.

Relations are stored as Relation attributes, containing a reference to the related entity and a list of labels to show on the relation item.

Example relation attribute value:

![Relation Attribute Example](../../static/img/entity-relation.png)

See [Relations](/docs/entities/relations) for more info.

## Activity

Any events related to the entity are stored in an append-only Activity feed.

Each activity item contains a description of the activity, the caller and details about any operations touching the data of the entity.
